You have some time off so you think maybe it would be cool to go somewhere, to get away for a while.

The mountains are for you an idea, they signify height, distance, perspective. If you were to draw a mountain you'd draw it on a cartesian plane. Y for altitude. X for time. Peaks are local maxima.

You don't know the first thing about geology. Well you do, but everything you know you learned from Mr. McGwire who once took your class on a trip along the newly blasted roads of suburban New York and showed you how to tell the difference between granite and gneiss.

You bring Flatland, a sci-fi classic about a society that lives in 2 - dimensions. You read a few pages before tucking it away in the pocket in front of your seat and it stays there that is to say you forget to take it with you. But Joe brought two books and you read Ecce Homo instead.

Wallace Stevens has a poem you've got memorized called the poem that took the place of a mountain; in it he says:

How he recomposed the pines, shifted the rocks, picked his way among the clouds…

Make the mountain move to Muhammad. That sounds good to you.

You figure this mountain, this place to call your own, will reveal

You're an atheist, born and raised, so the words take a long time to come and when they do they make you blush. You're looking for God, basically.

It's a tall order for a two week vacation. You take a bus to Puerto Natales, which you had just sort of assumed was at the southern tip of the world, but is actually north of the airport. You arrive in the evening and it's warm and you take off your jacket.

For all he wrote about them, Stevens couldn't have scaled many mountains. He was overweight - you've seen the pictures - and besides very busy with his law firm. When he did go on vacation he went to Key West to get drunk and fight with Frost and Hemingway.

What was he writing from? Memory or imagination or Google Images or?

In Ecco Homo Nietzsche has a chapter called Why I am so Clever in which he talks at length about his routine — no tea after noon, no coffee at all, Florence has excellent dry air, Venice is humid and to be avoided at all costs, etc etc. At the end of the chapter he says:

You may be wondering why I should actually have related all these trivial and according to traditional accounts insignificant details to you; that would indeed be harmful to me particularly if I am destined for great things. To this I reply that these trivial matters—diet, locality, climate and one’s mode of recreation, the whole casuistry of selfishness—are inconceivably more important than all that which has to date been held in high esteem. It is precisely in this quarter that we must begin to learn anew. All those things which mankind has valued with such seriousness to the present day are not even real; they are mere creations of the imagination or more strictly speaking lies born of the bad instincts of diseased and in the deepest sense poisonous natures—all the concepts “God”, "soul”, "virtue”, "sin”, "the Beyond”, "truth”, "eternal life”. But the greatness of human nature, its "divinity” was sought in them. All questions of politics, of social order, of education have been falsified root and branch owing to the fact that the most injurious men have been taken for great men and that people were taught to despise the small things or rather the fundamental things of life.

Nietzsche pays Buddhism his highest compliment by calling it not a religion but a “system of hygiene.”

On the last day at Torres del Paine you wake up around 5 or so to go see the sun rise.

Literary works that were commonplace years ago would be massive achievements today - there's just so much distraction.

Which is not to say you haven't had your fair share of adventure.

You know a little bit about how time passes. How that first milepost feels like a lie — must be a lie — and how cruel the math is. The remaining distance is impossibly long so you try cutting it different ways — just 9 more of these before you're halfway there, for example. The way you fill up on pizza faster by cutting into smaller pieces. Only the opposite of that.

It gets harder from there. Then it gets easier, usually around the 2/5 mark. 3/5 and 4/5 breeze by - you stop noticing the mileposts altogether except to comment on how frequent they've become. 5/5 is a little bit of a slog.

You've always been fascinated by the perception of time. One of your first theories was what you called the spheres of familiarity. You developed it at the age of 11 or so, after the umpteenth tedious car trip with your family.

That the ride there always feels longer than the ride home is well-established and generally agreed upon. But why? It has nothing, you claim, to do with the memory of the trip occupying your attention. Instead, it's about spheres of familiarity.

When you leave the house you see, you won't really feel "there” until you're there — but on the trip back, you'll feel there once you enter the sphere of familiarity - maybe when you finally get off the highway at Exit 19 for example, or when you take that left that you're not supposed to until after 5pm but you've been doing it forever and you're not supposed to stop now.

Careful! If the radius of your sphere of familiarity extends too far, you risk adding another mini-trip to your trip. That is, let's say your brain triggers the “finally, we're home” too soon, then the 15 minutes left will feel like an eternity to you. A 5-10 minute radius is usually appropriate for your sphere of familiarity, although some perception scholars believe this should be a function of the entire trip rather than a fixed time.

With B you've identified a number of time perception patterns. Tube of toothpaste, for example, in which the end comes fast and then takes forever. Tank of gas, in which it stays full forever, has no middle, and then gangs in there for the last de milesOr train conductor, in which you hear the click clack, anxiously get your ticket ready, wait an interminable, then just as your mind wanders the train conductor is there tapping his feet at you.

You wonder how the train conductor perceives time.

For almost all the hike all you can think about is time, time left in the day, time left on the trip, time left in your bank account, time left until most of your friends will be married and have children,

today I today you today we today the today some